---
layout:     post
title:      "Thoughts on life"
subtitle:   "Mid-march crisis"
date:       2026-3-15 12:00:00
author:     "lLukii"
header-img: "img/dark-mode-otherworld-wallpaper-v0-utqp151a9e7b1.png"
catalog: true
tags: 
    - Life
---
Around noon of last Monday, when I had just barely recovered mentally from my really disappointing performance during champs, I got an email from TNYC: "Preliminary Round Decisions". I did not qualify for finals.


MOTHERFUC---


I slammed my computer shut and crawled into a corner. A few faces turned. "Bro Lucas, you good?" they asked. No. That was four months of late nights, tirelessly scouring through arXiv and typing LaTeX equations. A project I targeted to qualify for ISEF didn't even make it past the first stage of my regional science fair. Was I destined to stay in this trap of aiming so high, yet falling so short? When everyone left the room, I headed to a corner and started bawling my eyes out. 

Maybe I never grew up after all...


Somewhere, a voice deep inside gave me a wake-up call: tomorrow's APUSH unit test won't go away on its own, nor will next period's English class. An hour later, with my mind still half beaten up, I somehow mustered up the courage to discuss transcendentalism with my English classmates; many of them were oblivious to the meltdown I had during Lunch. After coming back home, I practiced piano for the first time since my robotics lock-in, finally nailing the two chokepoints in Bach's C Minor Partita. To top it all off, I crammed about 2 weeks' worth of APUSH material in that single night (which, in retrospect, was a terrible idea, but clear evidence that Monday evening was hella productive.)


7th or 8th grade me probably would've refused to do any work for three weeks after something like that happened (case in point, the first time I took the AMC 8). By contrast, I probably felt shitty for at most like 4-5 hours before pivoting to what I needed to get done for tomorrow. Besides, I told myself, I could still aim for publications. Failing to qualify for a science fair doesn't mean my project was *bad*, per se. For what felt like the first time ever, I scraped off my bruises after facing adversity and carried on with my life. I felt empowered, in control of myself, like a heroic soldier getting up to fight a war after being shot.


Maybe I am growing up...
