---
layout:     post
title:      "2026 Jury Recap"
subtitle:   "Cooked or cooked?"
date:       2026-4-26 12:00:00
author:     "lLukii"
header-img: "img/dark-mode-otherworld-wallpaper-v0-utqp151a9e7b1.png"
catalog: true
tags: 
    - Piano
--- 
I finished my jury yesterday, which, if you didn't know, is like the final exam equivalent of piano at MSM. Anyways, a quick rundown of what happened:


* 5:35 PM - I arrive at the auditorium and spend around 15 minutes waiting for my turn while cramming some APUSH stuff before going to Houston. Kinda funny how literally everyone else around me was frantically looking over their pieces while I nonchalantly watched Heimler in the background.
* 5:50 PM - I get called in and start playing Bach. It went quite smoothly; I didn't make any huge slip-ups or anything, except for this split second when I thought they asked me to move on. Hopefully, the teachers interpreted that as a misunderstanding instead of a memory lapse...
* 5:55 PM - The lead juror asks me to play Beethoven. I don't remember making any big mistakes, but I guess some of my passages could've been cleaner.
* 6:00 PM - I get cut halfway through Beethoven and start Liszt. I'm pretty salty about my Liszt performance since I spent a good chunk of time this week fixing a lot of my chokepoints, which I proceeded to fumble during the jury. Oh well, it isn't the first time this has happened to me...
* 6:05 PM - Once again, I get cut off and told to play Gershwin. This time, the juror told me to play the *second* prelude because everything else I've played was either a standalone piece or the first piece in a set. Pretty interesting philosophy, but I guess it doesn't hurt me to play something slightly easier lol :p


As for my jury grade, I'm predicting anywhere from a 3.7 - 3.9 out of 4.5?? Overall, I think I was much better prepared this year, with most of my mistakes being minor hiccups rather than an outright memory lapse. I got a 3.8 last year, so hopefully I get something greater than or equal to that... but who knows? Ts is kinda rigged anyways...